P1206R7 Conversions from ranges to containers (#5280)
cplusplus/draft: source/containers.tex

but specialized allocators can choose a different definition.
\end{note}

> The following exposition-only concept is used in the definition of containers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\pnum
The following exposition-only concept is used in the definition of containers:
```
Not sure, but I think this probably needs a subclause number.

\tcode{distance(u.begin(), u.end()) == distance(i, j)} is \tcode{true}.
\end{itemdescr}

\begin{itemdecl}
X(from_range, rg)
\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\expects
\tcode{T} is \oldconcept{EmplaceConstructible} into \tcode{X}
from \tcode{*ranges::begin(rg)}.
For \tcode{vector},
if \tcode{R} models
neither \libconcept{sized_range} nor \libconcept{forward_range},
\tcode{T} is also \oldconcept{MoveInsertable} into \tcode{X}.

\pnum
\effects
Constructs a sequence container equal to the range \tcode{rg}.

> Each iterator in the range \tcode{rg} is dereferenced exactly once.

Reviewer: Above `X u(i, j);` use "is" too... Probably we should be consistent (i.e. keep this "is" or fix that to be "shall be" too)?

> Each iterator in the range \tcode{rg} is dereferenced exactly once.

Author: The incoming paper uses "is" for the new text. Further, we gravitate towards "shall" being used for diagnosable requirements on user code, which this is not. Not changing.

\tcode{p} if \tcode{i == j}.
\end{itemdescr}

\indexcont{insert_range}%
\begin{itemdecl}
a.insert_range(p, rg)
\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\result
\tcode{iterator}.

\pnum
\expects
\tcode{T} is \oldconcept{EmplaceConstructible} into \tcode{X}
from \tcode{*ranges::begin(rg)}.
For \tcode{vector} and \tcode{deque},
\tcode{T} is also
\oldconcept{MoveInsertable} into \tcode{X},
\oldconcept{MoveConstructible},
\oldconcept{MoveAssignable}, and
swappable\iref{swappable.requirements}.
\tcode{rg} and \tcode{a} do not overlap.

\pnum
\effects
Inserts copies of elements in \tcode{rg} before \tcode{p}.

> Each iterator in the range \tcode{rg} shall be dereferenced exactly once.

Reviewer 2: See https://github.com/cplusplus/draft/pull/5280#discussion_r803360712.
```suggestion
Each iterator in the range \tcode{rg} is dereferenced exactly once.
```

Each iterator in the range \range{i}{j} shall be dereferenced exactly once.
\end{itemdescr}

\indexcont{assign_range}%
\begin{itemdecl}
a.assign_range(rg)
\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\result
\keyword{void}

\pnum
\mandates
\tcode{\libconcept{assignable_from}<T\&, ranges::range_reference_t<R>>}
is modeled.

> \expects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
\pnum
\expects
```

> Each iterator in the range \range{i}{j} shall be dereferenced exactly once.

Reviewer 2: See https://github.com/cplusplus/draft/pull/5280#discussion_r803360712.
```suggestion
Each iterator in the range \range{i}{j} is dereferenced exactly once.
```

\end{itemdescr}

\indexcont{assign_range}%
\begin{itemdecl}
a.assign_range(rg)
\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\result
\keyword{void}

\pnum
\mandates
\tcode{\libconcept{assignable_from}<T\&, ranges::range_reference_t<R>>}
is modeled.

\pnum
\expects
\tcode{T} is \oldconcept{EmplaceConstructible} into \tcode{X}
from \tcode{*ranges::begin(rg)}.
For \tcode{vector},
if \tcode{R} models
neither \libconcept{sized_range} nor \libconcept{forward_range},
\tcode{T} is also \oldconcept{MoveInsertable} into \tcode{X}.
\tcode{rg} and \tcode{a} do not overlap.

\pnum
\effects
Replaces elements in \tcode{a} with a copy of each element in \tcode{rg}.
Invalidates all references, pointers, and iterators
referring to the elements of \tcode{a}.
For \tcode{vector} and \tcode{deque},
also invalidates the past-the-end iterator.

> Each iterator in the range \tcode{rg} shall be dereferenced exactly once.

Reviewer 2: See https://github.com/cplusplus/draft/pull/5280#discussion_r803360712.
```suggestion
Each iterator in the range \tcode{rg} is dereferenced exactly once.
```

\tcode{list}.
\end{itemdescr}

\begin{itemdecl}
a.prepend_range(rg)
\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\result
\keyword{void}

\pnum
\expects
\tcode{T} is \oldconcept{EmplaceConstructible} into \tcode{X}
from \tcode{ranges::begin(rg)}.

\pnum
\effects
Inserts copies of elements in \tcode{rg} before \tcode{begin()}.

> Each iterator in the range \tcode{rg} is dereferenced exactly once.

Reviewer 2: Drop suggestion in favor of https://github.com/cplusplus/draft/pull/5280#discussion_r803360712.

    constexpr vector(size_type n, const T& value, const Allocator& = Allocator());
    template<class InputIterator>
      constexpr vector(InputIterator first, InputIterator last, const Allocator& = Allocator());
    template<@\exposconcept{container-compatible-range}@<T> R>

>       constexpr vector(from_range_t, R&& rg, const Allocator& = Allocator());

Author: fixed

                            equal_to<@\placeholder{iter-value-type}@<InputIterator>>,
                            Allocator>;

  template<ranges::@\libconcept{input_range}@ R, class Allocator>
    unordered_multiset(from_range_t, R&&, typename @\seebelow@::size_type, Allocator)
      -> unordered_multiset<ranges::range_value_t<R>, hash<ranges::range_value_t<R>>,
                            equal_to<ranges::range_value_t<R>>, Allocator>;

  template<ranges::@\libconcept{input_range}@ R, class Allocator>
    unordered_multiset(from_range_t, R&&, Allocator)
      -> unordered_multiset<ranges::range_value_t<R>, hash<ranges::range_value_t<R>>,
                            equal_to<ranges::range_value_t<R>>, Allocator>;

>   template<ranges::input_range R, class Hash, class Allocator>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  template<ranges::@\libconcept{input_range}@ R, class Hash, class Allocator>
```

    explicit queue(const Container&);
    explicit queue(Container&&);
    template<class InputIterator> queue(InputIterator first, InputIterator last);
    template<@\exposconcept{container-compatible-range}@<T> R> queue(from_range_t, R&& rg);
    template<class Alloc> explicit queue(const Alloc&);
    template<class Alloc> queue(const Container&, const Alloc&);
    template<class Alloc> queue(Container&&, const Alloc&);
    template<class Alloc> queue(const queue&, const Alloc&);
    template<class Alloc> queue(queue&&, const Alloc&);
    template<class InputIterator, class Alloc>
      queue(InputIterator first, InputIterator last, const Alloc&);
    template<@\exposconcept{container-compatible-range}@<T> R, class Alloc>

>       queue(from_range_t, R&& rg, const Alloc&);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      queue(from_range_t, R&& rg, const Alloc&);

```

\tcode{alloc} as the third argument.
\end{itemdescr}

\indexlibraryctor{queue}%
\begin{itemdecl}
template<@\exposconcept{container-compatible-range}@<T> R, class Alloc>
  queue(from_range_t, R&& rg, const Alloc& a);
\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\effects
Initializes \tcode{c} with
\tcode{ranges::to<Container>(std::forward<R>(rg), a)}.
\end{itemdescr}

\rSec3[queue.mod]{Modifiers}

\indexlibrarymember{push_range}{queue}%
\begin{itemdecl}
template<@\exposconcept{container-compatible-range}@<T> R>
  void push_range(R&& rg);
\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\effects
Equivalent to \tcode{c.append_range(std::forward<R>(rg))}
if that is a valid expression,

> otherwise \tcode{ranges::copy(rg, back_inserter(c));}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
otherwise \tcode{ranges::copy(rg, back_inserter(c))}.
```

finally calls \tcode{make_heap(c.begin(), c.end(), comp)}.
\end{itemdescr}

\indexlibraryctor{priority_queue}%
\begin{itemdecl}
template<@\exposconcept{container-compatible-range}@<T> R, class Alloc>
  priority_queue(from_range_t, R&& rg, const Compare& compare, const Alloc& a);
\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\effects
Initializes \tcode{comp} with \tcode{compare} and
\tcode{c} with \tcode{ranges::to<Container>(std::forward<R>(rg), a)};
calls \tcode{make_heap(c.begin(), c.end(), comp)}.
\end{itemdescr}

\indexlibraryctor{priority_queue}%
\begin{itemdecl}

> template<container-compatible-range<T> R, class Alloc>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
template<@\exposconcept{container-compatible-range}@<T> R, class Alloc>
```

    explicit stack(const Container&);
    explicit stack(Container&&);
    template<class InputIterator> stack(InputIterator first, InputIterator last);
    template<@\exposconcept{container-compatible-range}@<T> R> stack(from_range_t, R&& rg);
    template<class Alloc> explicit stack(const Alloc&);
    template<class Alloc> stack(const Container&, const Alloc&);
    template<class Alloc> stack(Container&&, const Alloc&);
    template<class Alloc> stack(const stack&, const Alloc&);
    template<class Alloc> stack(stack&&, const Alloc&);
    template<class InputIterator, class Alloc>
      stack(InputIterator first, InputIterator last, const Alloc&);
    template<@\exposconcept{container-compatible-range}@<T> R, class Alloc>
      stack(from_range_t, R&& rg, const Alloc&);

> 

Reviewer 2: You also removed empty lines from `queue`.
```suggestion
```

Reviewer: We should keep both, I think. An empty line between ctors and other methods is beneficial for clarity.

Reviewer: We should keep both, I think. An empty line between ctors and other methods is beneficial for clarity.

Author: Agreed with @Mick235711.

\tcode{alloc} as the third argument.
\end{itemdescr}

\indexlibraryctor{stack}%
\begin{itemdecl}
template<@\exposconcept{container-compatible-range}@<T> R, class Alloc>
  stack(from_range_t, R&& rg, const Alloc& a);
\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\effects
Initializes
\tcode{c} with \tcode{ranges::to<Container>(std::forward<R>(rg), a)}.
\end{itemdescr}

\rSec3[stack.mod]{Modifiers}

\indexlibrarymember{push_range}{stack}%
\begin{itemdecl}
template<@\exposconcept{container-compatible-range}@<T> R>
  void push_range(R&& rg);
\end{itemdecl}

\begin{itemdescr}
\pnum
\effects
Equivalent to \tcode{c.append_range(std::forward<R>(rg))}
if that is a valid expression,

> otherwise \tcode{ranges::copy(rg, back_inserter(c));}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
otherwise \tcode{ranges::copy(rg, back_inserter(c))}.
```
